---
layout: post
title:  Tenoch
author: kfrar
date:   2018-07-28 19:00:00 -0400
iw_date: Ai-El 14, 834
tags: dnd henri
category: henri
---

#### 14th of Ai-El, 834

Finally found a fellow who speaks Draconic and who doesn’t have silly things
like “a respectable, full-time job” or “a family” to keep him busy all the
time. And he’s looking for partners on a quest to go heal some kid’s family, so
I get an excuse to travel with him and some easy money while I’m at it! Time to
cross another language off my list.

Kids these days. If you’re going to steal a potion from someone, it’s just
common sense to have an excuse for why you stole it, right? Just forge a
receipt, or inform the nice guards that you’ve never heard of that merchant in
your life before and you totally got the potion from your recently deceased
second cousin, or something like that. Ah well, his heart was in the right
place. It’s all I can do to impart what Wisdom I can on the younger generations
and hope they can do better next time.

The nerve of these goblins, trying to mug us while only carrying around a
pittance of gold, nearly unusable equipment, and a single one-sentence note
written in Grivian. Honestly, I earned more and learned more as a scribe for
those cagey Indil nobles. At least our captive might be able to lead us to
Numlash’s camp; surely they’ll have some examples of written Goblin lying around
there.

See, this is what’s wrong with the educational system these days. It’s all well
and good to teach your daughter everything you know about the noble craft of
farming, but if you don’t diversify her education a bit just because “I’m an
ignorant peasant, I barely know how to tie my boots myself” or “Necromancy is
evil, we can’t just tell all of our impressionable children how to raise zombie
armies” it’s only a matter of time until she accidentally turns her parents into
undead abominations while trying to heal them of a fatal illness with some shady
second-hand rituals. Remember folks, if you don’t teach your kids about
Necromancy yourself, someone else will. So make sure your kids learn it in a
responsible environment.

Progress with learning Draconic has been… slow. Tenoch isn’t a very talkative
fellow, so getting enough data to start translating the language has been
tricky. Still, he’s muttered out some snippets here and there, and those
conversation from back at Aldenburn are still fresh in my mind. I’m sure that
with a bit of the old oracular elbow-grease I’ll have cracked his language in no
time.
